# Machine_vision_and_image_processing
Machine vision and image processing project
Computervisionanddeeplearning(DL)haveachievedtheutmostprogressinviewingimagesatthe samelevelasthatofhumans[1]throughtheprocessoflearningsuchasinmedicalimageclassiﬁcation [2–8].Supportedbypubliclyaccessibledatasets,computer-aidedworksbasedonimageprocessing andDLformedicalinterpretationhavebeenincreasinglyimproved. Inbreastcancerdetection,DLhas beenemployedtoclassifymedicalimagesofmammography[9,10],ultrasound[11],histopathological image[12–16],andthermography[17–22].Despitethehighaccuracyrateofthedeepneuralnetworks (NNs) applied to these modality images, the procedure for obtaining the images requires an individual to visit a speciﬁc hospital to perform the screening. It is a constraint for many people with limited mobility, such as those living far from the hospital or having other restrictions. Moreover,thermographyisanoninvasiveearlydetectorthatcanbepromotedasahandypre-cancer screeningtool[23].Earlydetectionmeansidentifyingbreastmasseswhentheyarestillinthetreatable stage with the least psychological and physical harm [24]. Therefore, developing and promoting of an early detector and self-screening tool for precancer are needed to prevent breast cancer and minimize the mortality rate. Additionally, WHO has recommended that women should take responsibility for their health by performing a breast self-examination. Preliminary research [25] also conﬁrmed that screening, which is a systematic procedure to identify an individual with an abnormality suggestive of cancer [26], can reducetheincidencerate. Hence,ahandyscreeningtoolishighlyrequiredtoallowwomentoperform breast self-screening regularly. AhandyprecancerscreeningtoolbasedonthermographyandDLcanbeaneﬀectivetoolforbreast self-examination. Supported by the availability of publicly accessible datasets and the projection of 13.1 billion global mobile devices in 2023 [27], we believe a handy self-screening device can be achieved at a low cost. In addition, smartphones integrated with a thermal camera [28–30] have also been introduced into the market. Further, the performance of DL has inspired attempts to provide high-quality intelligent services on mobile devices. Nevertheless, our study indicated that the integration of DL and mobile devices is still at the preliminary stage. Thus, further work should be conducted by considering the fundamental requirements of a mobile application. Requirements for a mobile application: In deploying a DL model into a mobile application, we have to ﬁrst decide the model inference location: on the cloud server or local mobile device [31]. Inference on the cloud server deploys a complexNNmodelandmaintainsthesimplicityofthemobileapplication. However,someissuesmay ariseasaresultofthismethod,suchasthelackofusers’dataprivacyandtheinabilityofsomepatients to use the application in areas with poor internet connection [32]. By contrast, the inference of a NN model on the local mobile device requires a less complex model that will allow the integration with a mobile application. For practical examples, Apple places a limit of 200 MB on the App Store [33], whereas Play Store requires that the compressed Android Package Kit be no more than 100 MB [34]. Since the intended mobile application is for breast cancer screening, a user’s image has to be conﬁ- dential. In addition, regular screening should not depend on the internet connection. Thus, we recom-
Mathematical Biosciences and Engineering Volume 19, Issue 2, 1304–1331.
1306
mend that the inference (i.e., classiﬁcation or prediction task) be localized within the mobile device. To enable on-device inference, the following requirements have to be met:
• The input image should contain rich features. To obtain rich features from an image captured using a cell phone, the image should be preprocessed with a simple and eﬃcient algorithm. • The mobile NN classiﬁer should be deployable in the local mobile devices. • As the application is for medical purposes, it should have the highest accuracy rate.
Considering the above requirements, we developed an eﬃcient algorithm based on a convolutional neural network (CNN) model that can classify breast thermograms at a high accuracy rate. The classi- ﬁer model breast cancer mobile network (BreaCNet), consists of a new segmentation algorithm and a mobile NN. The contributions of this study are as follows:
• It highlights the mobile application requirements for breast thermogram classiﬁcation. • It proposes a simple segmentation algorithm that suits the characteristics of breast thermograms to provide rich features. • It provides a good ﬁt mobile CNN model based on ShuﬄeNet. • It introduces a high accuracy classiﬁer model called BreaCNet consisting of the proposed seg- mentation algorithm and the mobile CNN model. • It proposes an implementation framework of the classiﬁer model in a mobile application.
The rest of this paper is organized as follows. Section 2 presents the related works, and Section 3 describes the materials and methods used in this work. BreaCNet’s development and its implemen- tation framework for a mobile application are clearly explained in Section 4,followedbythemodel performance discussion in Section 5.Finally,Section 6 concludes this study.
2. Relatedwork
Numerous studies have been devoted to breast cancer detection based on thermography and DL since 2018 [23]. The works mostly used the image datasets from the database for mastology research (DMR)[35].TheexamplesofbreastthermogramsdownloadedfromDMRareshowninFigure1(a),(b) whichpresentsthenormalandabnormalthermogramsinRGBandgrayscale,respectively. Theabnor- malbreastthermogramwasobtainedfromapatientwithamedicalhistoryofmammographyandasign ofcanceron therightbreast. Thenormalandabnormalthermograms werenearlyindistinguishableby the naked eye. However, when the statistical feature analysis was employed, there was a signiﬁcant diﬀerence found between the temperature distribution in the normal breast thermogram and that of the abnormal one. As illustrated in Figure 1(c),thehistogramofthenormalbreastshowedthatbothsidesofthe breast have similar temperature distributions and a lower mean temperature compared with that of the abnormal one Figure 1(d). Thus, the symmetrical characteristics of a breast thermogram can indicate thesignsofnormalityandabnormalityinbreasttissues[36]andcanbeanalternativemedicalimaging modality to detect breast cancer symptoms at an early stage.
google drive link :https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1iBlFFFa66U7WGxKwDQA8W28rcn83rkCu?usp=drive_link
